Multi-Node-Multi-GPU Tutorial (#8071)
pyg-team/pytorch_geometric: docs/source/tutorial/multi_node_multi_gpu_tutorial.rst

Multi-Node-Multi-GPU GNN Training
==================================

Before doing this tutorial we recommend going through <insert single-node-multi-gpu tutorial> as a warm up.
Our first step is to understand the basic structure of a multi-node-multi-gpu example.

.. code-block:: python

    import argparse
    import time
    import warnings

    import torch
    import torch.distributed as dist
    from torch_geometric.datasets import FakeDataset

    from torch_geometric.nn.models import GCN

    warnings.filterwarnings("ignore")

    _LOCAL_PROCESS_GROUP = None

    def create_local_process_group(num_workers_per_node):
        ...

    def get_local_process_group():
        ...

    def run(device, data, world_size, model, epochs, batch_size, fan_out,
                  split_idx, num_classes):

>         ...

Reviewer: We don't need these func definitions right?

Author: these are definitely needed functions to set up the process groups for multinode

Reviewer: I was asking because I see the definitions right below this section.

Author: oh i see what you mean. ill leave it up to @rusty1s to decide, i chose to show these as a skeleton to give an idea of the key base functions needed for multi-node but i can understand your reasoning as well.

            default="1",
            help="number of GPU(s) for each node for multi-gpu training,",
        )
        args = parser.parse_args()
        # setup multi node
        torch.distributed.init_process_group("nccl")
        nprocs = dist.get_world_size()
        create_local_process_group(args.ngpu_per_node)
        local_group = get_local_process_group()
        device_id = dist.get_rank(
            group=local_group) if dist.is_initialized() else 0
        torch.cuda.set_device(device_id)
        device = torch.device(device_id)

        dataset = FakeDataset(avg_num_nodes=100000)
        data = dataset.data
        num_nodes = data.num_nodes
        rand_id = torch.randperm(num_nodes)

        # 60/20/20 split
        split_idx = {
            'train':rand_id[:int(.6 * num_nodes)],
            'valid':rand_id[int(.6 * num_nodes):int(.8 * num_nodes)],
            'test':rand_id[:int(.8 * num_nodes):],
        }

        model = GCN(dataset.num_features, args.hidden_channels, 2,
                    dataset.num_classes)
        run(device, data, nprocs, model, args.epochs, args.batch_size,
                  args.fan_out, split_idx, dataset.num_classes)

> Similarly to the warm up example, we define a :meth:`run` function. However, in this case we are using torch distributed with NVIDIA NCCL backend, instead of relying on :class:`~torch.multiprocessing`. Because we are running on multiple nodes, we want to set up a local process group for each node, and use :obj:`args.ngpu_per_node` GPUs per node. We then select the the CUDA device that will be used by each process within each process group. The next steps are fairly basic :pyg:`PyG` and :pytorch:`PyTorch` usage. We load our (synthetic) dataset and then set up our 60/20/20 train/val/test split. Next, we define our :class:`~torch_geometric.nn.models.GCN` model and finally call our :meth:`run` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to the single-node multi-gpu example, we define a :meth:`run` function. However, in this case we are using torch distributed with NVIDIA NCCL backend, instead of relying on :class:`~torch.multiprocessing`. Because we are running on multiple nodes, we want to set up a local process group for each node, and use :obj:`args.ngpu_per_node` GPUs per node. We then select the the CUDA device that will be used by each process within each process group. The next steps are fairly basic :pyg:`PyG` and :pytorch:`PyTorch` usage. We load our (synthetic) dataset and then set up our 60/20/20 train/val/test split. Next, we define our :class:`~torch_geometric.nn.models.GCN` model and finally call our :meth:`run` function.
```

Also, I think we should breifly explain or add a link to some documentation about process group as I believe the target readers are someone who doesn't have much experience in multi-node multi-gpu training.
